Add upgrade to Prefect 3 Guide (#14237)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/3.0rc/resources/upgrade-prefect-3.mdx

---
title: Upgrade to Prefect 3
description: Learn how to upgrade from Prefect 2 to Prefect 3.
---

Some patterns supported by Prefect 2 are no longer supported with Prefect 3, or are enabled differently. 
This guide covers changes that you may need to make to ensure your flows keep flowing.

## Module locations and names

> Some modules have been renamed, reorganized, or removed for clarity. If you use a module that has changed, it will continue to work, but it will raise deprecation warnings. You will need to update these modules before the six month deprecation period ends:

Author: ```suggestion
Some modules have been renamed, reorganized, or removed for clarity. If you use a module that has changed, it will continue to work, but it will raise deprecation warnings. 
You will need to update these modules before the six month deprecation period ends:
```

> Some modules have been renamed, reorganized, or removed for clarity. If you use a module that has changed, it will continue to work, but it will raise deprecation warnings. You will need to update these modules before the six month deprecation period is up:

Reviewer: I believe this will be dependent on everyone ensuring they have added any moved or removed modules to the migration utility dictionary

Author: Yes, that's right. If we discover things that we missed. We'll have to add them both here and there.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some modules have been renamed, reorganized, or removed for clarity. If you use a module that has changed, it will continue to work, but it will raise deprecation warnings. You will need to update these modules before the six month deprecation period ends:
```

	    state = future.state
	    return state
    ```
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

In Prefect 3, `PrefectFutures` resulting from submitted task runs are not automatically awaited/resolved before exiting a flow, unless they’re a dependency of other flows or tasks, so *you must wait for a task’s `PrefectFuture` resolution before the end of a flow*:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Prefect 2">
    ```python
    @task
    def my_task():
	    ...
	
	
    @flow
    def my_flow():
	    # The flow will not exit until these 
	    # futures are resolved
	    [my_task.submit() for i in range(10)]
    ```
  </Card>
  <Card title="Prefect 3">
    ```python
    @task
    def my_task():
	    ...
	
	
    @flow
    def my_flow():
	    futures = [my_task.submit() for i in range(10)]
	    # You must wait for futures before exiting flow.
	    for future in futures:
		    future.wait()
    ```
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

If you do not wait for the futures, the tasks may fail with a 'Flow must be running to start a task' error. 
The one exception to this case is that `PrefectFuture`s returned from a flow will resolve to states before completing the flow.

## Notifications are now Automations

> The notifications feature in Prefect 2 has been vastly expanded to enable all kinds of “if this, then that” logic that can be defined and executed by a Prefect server instance or Prefect Cloud

Author: ```suggestion
The notifications feature in Prefect 2 has been vastly expanded to enable all kinds of “if this, then that” logic that can be defined and executed by a Prefect server instance or Prefect Cloud.
```

> The notifications feature in Prefect 2 has been vastly expanded to enable all kinds of “if this, then that” logic that can be defined and executed by a Prefect server instance or Prefect Cloud

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The notifications feature in Prefect 2 has been expanded to enable many kinds of “if this, then that” logic that can be defined and executed by a Prefect server instance or Prefect Cloud.
```

> The notifications feature in Prefect 2 has been vastly expanded to enable all kinds of “if this, then that” logic that can be defined and executed by a Prefect server instance or Prefect Cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
The notifications feature in Prefect 2 has been expanded to enable many kinds of “if this, then that” logic that can be defined and executed by a Prefect server instance or Prefect Cloud.
```

See the [Automations documentation](/3.0rc/automate/events/automations-triggers) for more information.

## Integrations must be upgraded

> Prefect 2 integrations cannot be used with Prefect 3 and vice versa. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Integrations compatible with Prefect 2 generally cannot be used with Prefect 3 and vice versa. 
```

Reviewer 2: I think a few might still work with both?

You must update all of your integrations packages in conjunction with upgrading from Prefect 2 to Prefect 3. 
We reccomend using the extras on the `prefect` package to ensure that you install the version (e.g. `pip install prefect[aws]`) of the integration that corresponds to your Prefect version.

## Data validation via Pydantic v2

Prefect 2 uses Pydantic v1 to validate data, particularly for blocks and work pools. 
Prefect 3 has been upgraded to Pydantic v2. This upgrade does not require changes for any built-in Prefect interfaces or supporting integrations. 

> However, if you have registered custom blocks with a self hosted Prefect Server, type enforcement for those block schemas will need to be upgraded to Pydantic v2 to work with Prefect 3. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, if you have registered custom blocks with a self-hosted Prefect Server, type enforcement for those block schemas will need to be upgraded to Pydantic v2 to work with Prefect 3. 
```

---
title: Upgrade to Prefect 3
description: Learn how to upgrade from Prefect 2 to Prefect 3.
---

Some patterns supported by Prefect 2 are no longer supported with Prefect 3, or are enabled differently. 
This guide covers changes that you may need to make to ensure your flows keep flowing.

## Module locations and names

Some modules have been renamed, reorganized, or removed for clarity. If you use a module that has changed, it will continue to work, but it will raise deprecation warnings. 

> You will need to update these modules before the six month deprecation period ends:

Author: ```suggestion
You must update these modules before the six month deprecation period ends:
```

Prefect 3 defaults to running tasks as they would run as normal Python code, and requires you to be more explicit when you would like to modify task execution behavior. 
This results in clearer behavior with fewer surprises.

In Prefect 3, all workflow code, including task functions, runs on the main thread. This means:

- Python code that is not explicitly defined as asynchronous will execute synchronously, as normal Python code does.
- Non-thread safe objects, such as database connections, can be shared globally within a workflow.

To execute tasks asynchronously in separate threads, you must either write asynchronous Python functions or use the `Task.submit` method. 
When executing tasks asynchronously in Prefect 3, you must follow conventional asynchronous Python programing principles. 
Updating your workflows to bring them in line with these principles requires code changes. Here are some examples:

**Synchronous tasks and flows cannot be called from asynchronous tasks or flows as they could in Prefect 2.**

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Prefect 2">
    ```python

>     @task
>     async def my_task():
> 	...

Reviewer 3: Indentation is a little wonky on this one
```suggestion
    @task
    async def my_task():
            ...
```

	

    # Enclosing flow can be sync
    @flow
    def my_flow():
	    return my_task()
	
		
    if __name__ == "__main__":
	    my_flow()
    ```
  </Card>
  <Card title="Prefect 3">
    ```python
    @task
    async def my_task():
	    ...
	

    # Enclosing flow must be async as well
    @flow
    async def my_flow():
	    return await my_task()
	
	
    if __name__ == "__main__":
	    asyncio.run(my_flow())
    ``` 
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Because `Task.submit` is always a synchronous call, it does not need to be awaited. 
`Task.submit` is still non-blocking and execution of the submitted task is also still non-blocking. 
So, *you do not need to await futures from submitted tasks*:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Prefect 2">
    ```python

>     @task
>     async def my_task():
> 	        ...

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    @task
    async def my_task():
	    ...
```

	
	
    @flow
    async def my_flow():
	    #must await `.submit()`
	    future = await my_task.submit()
	    return future
    ```
  </Card>
  <Card title="Prefect 3">
    ```python
    @task
    async def my_task():
	    ...
	
	
    @flow
    async def my_flow():
	    # No need to await `.submit()`
	    future = my_task.submit()
	    return future
    ```
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

The `PrefectFuture` methods are also always synchronous in Prefect 3. Names and return values have changed to reflect this:

- `PrefectFututure.get_state()` is now `PrefectFuture.state`
- `PrefectFuture.wait()` now returns `None` instead of a `State`

So, *you must wait for the future to complete, then retrieve the state separately*:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Prefect 2">
    ```python

>     @task
>     async def my_task():
>     	...

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    @task
    async def my_task():
    	    ...
```

	
	
    @flow
    async def my_flow():
    	future = await my_task.submit()
	    # State is returned by `wait()`
	    state = await future.wait()
	    return state
    ```
  </Card>
  <Card title="Prefect 3">
    ```python

>     @task
>     async def my_task():
>     	...

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    @task
    async def my_task():
    	    ...
```

	
	
    @flow
    async def my_flow():
	    future = my_task.submit()
	    # Wait for future completion  
	    # before retrieving the state
	    future.wait()
	    state = future.state
	    return state
    ```
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

In Prefect 3, `PrefectFutures` resulting from submitted task runs are not automatically awaited/resolved before exiting a flow, unless they’re a dependency of other flows or tasks, so *you must wait for a task’s `PrefectFuture` resolution before the end of a flow*:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Prefect 2">
    ```python
    @task
    def my_task():
	    ...
	
	
    @flow
    def my_flow():
	    # The flow will not exit until these 
	    # futures are resolved
	    [my_task.submit() for i in range(10)]
    ```
  </Card>
  <Card title="Prefect 3">
    ```python
    @task
    def my_task():
	    ...
	
	

>     @flow
>     def my_flow():
> 	    futures = [my_task.submit() for i in range(10)]
> 	    # You must wait for futures before exiting flow.
> 	    for future in futures:
> 		    future.wait()

Reviewer 3: We can wait on all the futures now that https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/14234 is merged.
```suggestion
    @flow
    def my_flow():
	    futures = [my_task.submit() for i in range(10)]
	    # You must wait for futures before exiting flow.
	    futures.wait()
```

The one exception to this case is that `PrefectFuture`s returned from a flow will resolve to states before completing the flow.

## Notifications are now Automations

The notifications feature in Prefect 2 has been expanded to enable many kinds of “if this, then that” logic that can be defined and executed by a Prefect server instance or Prefect Cloud.
See the [Automations documentation](/3.0rc/automate/events/automations-triggers) for more information.

## Integrations must be upgraded

Integrations compatible with Prefect 2 generally cannot be used with Prefect 3 and vice versa. 
You must update all of your integrations packages in conjunction with upgrading from Prefect 2 to Prefect 3. 
We reccomend using the extras on the `prefect` package to ensure that you install the version (e.g. `pip install prefect[aws]`) of the integration that corresponds to your Prefect version.

## Data validation via Pydantic v2

Prefect 2 uses Pydantic v1 to validate data, particularly for blocks and work pools. 
Prefect 3 has been upgraded to Pydantic v2. This upgrade does not require changes for any built-in Prefect interfaces or supporting integrations. 

> However, if you have registered custom blocks with a self-hosted Prefect Server, type enforcement for those block schemas will need to be upgraded to Pydantic v2 to work with Prefect 3. 

Author: ```suggestion
However, if you have registered custom blocks with a self-hosted Prefect Server, type enforcement for those block schemas must be upgraded to Pydantic v2 to work with Prefect 3. 
```

	    future.wait()
	    state = future.state
	    return state
    ```
</CodeGroup>

If you do not first wait for the future to complete, the run may raise an 'AttributeError: coroutine object has no attribute get' exception. 

In Prefect 3, `PrefectFutures` resulting from submitted task runs are not automatically awaited/resolved before exiting a flow, unless they’re a dependency of other flows or tasks, so *you must wait for a task’s `PrefectFuture` resolution before the end of a flow*:

<CodeGroup>
    ```python Prefect 2
    @task
    def my_task():
	    ...
	
	
    @flow
    def my_flow():
	    # The flow will not exit until 
	    # these futures are resolved
	    futures = my_task.map([1, 2, 3, 4])
    ```

    ```python Prefect 3
    @task
    def my_task():
	    ...
	
	
    @flow
    def my_flow():
	    futures = my_task.map([1, 2, 3, 4])
	    # You must wait for futures before exiting flow.
	    futures.wait()
    ```
</CodeGroup>

If you do not wait for the futures, the tasks may fail with a 'Flow must be running to start a task' error. 
The one exception to this case is that `PrefectFuture`s returned from a flow will resolve to states before completing the flow.

> ## Result persistence and caching enabled by default

Reviewer 2: With this change being reverted, this section will need updated.

Author: @desertaxle or @cicdw could you update this to reflect the latest? I'm not up to speed on the changes

Reviewer 4: Yea i'll update

---
title: Upgrade to Prefect 3
description: Learn how to upgrade from Prefect 2 to Prefect 3.
---

Some patterns supported by Prefect 2 are no longer supported with Prefect 3, or are enabled differently. 
This guide covers changes that you may need to make to ensure your flows keep flowing.

## Module locations and names

> Some modules have been renamed, reorganized, or removed for clarity. If you use a module that has changed, it will continue to work, but it will raise deprecation warnings. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some modules have been renamed, reorganized, or removed for clarity. Objects imported from changed modules will continue to work until their deprecation period ends, but will raise deprecation warnings. 
```

You must update these modules before the six month deprecation period ends:

| Prefect 2 | Prefect 3 | Notes                                 |
| --------- | --------- | ------------------------------------- |
|           |           |                                       |

## Asynchronous task execution behavior

Prefect 2 abstracts away certain task execution concerns, which is convenient in some cases, but comes at the expense of unexpected behavior in other cases. 
Prefect 3 defaults to running tasks as they would run as normal Python code, and requires you to be more explicit when you would like to modify task execution behavior. 
This results in clearer behavior with fewer surprises.

In Prefect 3, all workflow code, including task functions, runs on the main thread. This means:

- Python code that is not explicitly defined as asynchronous will execute synchronously, as normal Python code does.
- Non-thread safe objects, such as database connections, can be shared globally within a workflow.

To execute tasks asynchronously in separate threads, you must either write asynchronous Python functions or use the `Task.submit` method. 

> When executing tasks asynchronously in Prefect 3, you must follow conventional asynchronous Python programing principles. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When executing tasks asynchronously in Prefect 3, follow conventional asynchronous Python programing principles. 
```

> Updating your workflows to bring them in line with these principles requires code changes. Here are some examples:

Author: ```suggestion
Updating your workflows to bring them in line with these principles requires code changes. 
Here are some examples:
```

**Synchronous tasks and flows cannot be called from asynchronous tasks or flows as they could in Prefect 2.**

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Prefect 2">
    ```python
    @task
    async def my_task():
        ...
	

    # Enclosing flow can be sync
    @flow
    def my_flow():
	return my_task()
	
		
    if __name__ == "__main__":
	my_flow()
    ```
  </Card>
  <Card title="Prefect 3">
    ```python
    @task
    async def my_task():
	...
	

    # Enclosing flow must be async as well
    @flow
    async def my_flow():
	return await my_task()
	
	
    if __name__ == "__main__":
	asyncio.run(my_flow())
    ``` 
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Because `Task.submit` is always a synchronous call, it does not need to be awaited. 
`Task.submit` is still non-blocking and execution of the submitted task is also still non-blocking. 

> So, *you do not need to await futures from submitted tasks*:

Author: ```suggestion
So, *you do not need to await use the `await` keyword in front of your `.submit` call*:
```

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Prefect 2">
    ```python
    @task
    async def my_task():
	    ...
	
	
    @flow
    async def my_flow():
	    #must await `.submit()`
	    future = await my_task.submit()
	    return future
    ```
  </Card>
  <Card title="Prefect 3">
    ```python
    @task
    async def my_task():
	    ...
	
	
    @flow
    async def my_flow():
	    # No need to await `.submit()`
	    future = my_task.submit()
	    return future
    ```
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

The `PrefectFuture` methods are also always synchronous in Prefect 3. Names and return values have changed to reflect this:

- `PrefectFututure.get_state()` is now `PrefectFuture.state`
- `PrefectFuture.wait()` now returns `None` instead of a `State`

> So, *you must wait for the future to complete, then retrieve the state separately*:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Wait for the future to complete, then retrieve the state separately*:
```

    async def my_flow():
	future = my_task.submit()
	# Wait for future completion  
	# before retrieving the state
	future.wait()
	state = future.state
	return state
    ```
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

In Prefect 3, `PrefectFutures` resulting from submitted task runs are not automatically awaited/resolved before exiting a flow, unless they’re a dependency of other flows or tasks, so *you must wait for a task’s `PrefectFuture` resolution before the end of a flow*:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Prefect 2">
    ```python
    @task
    def my_task():
	...
	
	
    @flow
    def my_flow():
	# The flow will not exit until 
	# these futures are resolved
	futures = my_task.map([1, 2, 3, 4])
    ```
  </Card>
  <Card title="Prefect 3">
    ```python
    @task
    def my_task():
	...
	
	
    @flow
    def my_flow():
	futures = my_task.map([1, 2, 3, 4])
	# You must wait for futures before exiting flow.
	futures.wait()
    ```
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

If you do not wait for the futures, the tasks may fail with a 'Flow must be running to start a task' error. 
The one exception to this case is that `PrefectFuture`s returned from a flow will resolve to states before completing the flow.

> ## Result persistence and caching behavior

Author: I've updated the language to reflect this feedback

If it has, the cached result from the previous run is used.
If it hasn't, the task runs. 
This behavior can be configured through the new global `cache_policy` setting, or through the `cache_key_fn` on the task, just as in Prefect 2.

Results and cache keys are not stored with your Prefect Cloud account or Prefect server instance. 
They are persisted entirely in your local result location. 
Result persistence, and the caching behavior it enables, can be disabled through the `persist_result=False` flag.

See the [caching documentation](/3.0rc/develop/write-tasks#caching) for more information.

## Notifications are now Automations

The notifications feature in Prefect 2 has been expanded to enable many kinds of “if this, then that” logic that can be defined and executed by a Prefect server instance or Prefect Cloud.
See the [Automations documentation](/3.0rc/automate/events/automations-triggers) for more information.

## Integrations must be upgraded

Integrations compatible with Prefect 2 generally cannot be used with Prefect 3 and vice versa. 
You must update all of your integrations packages in conjunction with upgrading from Prefect 2 to Prefect 3. 

> We reccomend using the extras on the `prefect` package to ensure that you install the version (e.g. `pip install prefect[aws]`) of the integration that corresponds to your Prefect version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend specifying extras when you install the `prefect` package to ensure that you install the integration package version that corresponds to your Prefect version. For example, use `pip install prefect[aws] --pre` to install  Prefect 3 and a compatible prefect-aws version.
```

Reviewer 2: I know there's a PR to add update functionality here, but as of now `pip install prefect[aws]` doesn't work yet and 
`pip install prefect[aws] --pre` should work and give you a Prefect 3 version soon. Without the `--pre` it won't install Prefect 3 on June 25. Also, we might want to add -U for folks upgrading.

> ## Data validation via Pydantic v2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Data validation via Pydantic V2
```

Reviewer 2: Very pedantic, but Pydantic uses a capital V in their docs

> Prefect 2 uses Pydantic v1 to validate data, particularly for blocks and work pools. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prefect 2 uses Pydantic V1 to validate data, particularly for blocks and work pools. 
```

> Prefect 3 has been upgraded to Pydantic v2. This upgrade does not require changes for any built-in Prefect interfaces or supporting integrations. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prefect 3 has been upgraded to Pydantic V2. This upgrade does not require changes for any built-in Prefect interfaces or supporting integrations. 
```

> However, if you have registered custom blocks with a self-hosted Prefect Server, type enforcement for those block schemas must be upgraded to Pydantic v2 to work with Prefect 3. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, if you have registered custom blocks with a self-hosted Prefect Server, type enforcement for those block schemas must be upgraded to Pydantic V2 to work with Prefect 3. 
```

> See the the [Pydantic migration guide](https://www.notion.so/Prefect-2-3-Upgrade-Guide-e43313731c1d4adbb4e4175548058b51?pvs=21) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the the [Pydantic migration guide](https://docs.pydantic.dev/latest/migration/) for more information.
```

You must update these modules before the six month deprecation period ends:

| Prefect 2 | Prefect 3 | Notes                                 |
| --------- | --------- | ------------------------------------- |
|           |           |                                       |

## Asynchronous task execution behavior

Prefect 2 abstracts away certain task execution concerns, which is convenient in some cases, but comes at the expense of unexpected behavior in other cases. 
Prefect 3 defaults to running tasks as they would run as normal Python code, and requires you to be more explicit when you would like to modify task execution behavior. 
This results in clearer behavior with fewer surprises.

In Prefect 3, all workflow code, including task functions, runs on the main thread. This means:

- Python code that is not explicitly defined as asynchronous will execute synchronously, as normal Python code does.
- Non-thread safe objects, such as database connections, can be shared globally within a workflow.

> To execute tasks asynchronously in separate threads, you must either write asynchronous Python functions or use the `Task.submit` method. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To execute tasks asynchronously, you must either write asynchronous Python functions or use the `Task.submit` method to submit to a Prefect task runner.
```

Prefect 3 encourages conventional asynchronous Python programing principles. 
Updating your workflows to bring them in line with these principles requires code changes. 
Here are some examples:

**Synchronous tasks and flows cannot be called from asynchronous tasks or flows as they could in Prefect 2.**

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Prefect 2">
    ```python
    @task
    async def my_task():

>             ...

Reviewer 4: this indention looks too deep to me

Author: lol agreed I shouldn't have accepted that change. I'll revise it.

  <Card title="Prefect 2">
    ```python
    @task
    async def my_task():
    	...
	
	
    @flow
    async def my_flow():
    	future = await my_task.submit()
	# State is returned by `wait()`
	state = await future.wait()
	return state
    ```
  </Card>
  <Card title="Prefect 3">
    ```python
    @task
    async def my_task():
    	    ...
	
	
    @flow
    async def my_flow():
	future = my_task.submit()
	# Wait for future completion  
	# before retrieving the state
	future.wait()
	state = future.state
	return state
    ```
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

In Prefect 3, `PrefectFutures` resulting from submitted task runs are not automatically awaited/resolved before exiting a flow, unless they’re a dependency of other flows or tasks, so *you must wait for a task’s `PrefectFuture` resolution before the end of a flow*:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Prefect 2">
    ```python
    @task
    def my_task():
	...
	
	
    @flow
    def my_flow():
	# The flow will not exit until these 
	# futures are resolved
	[my_task.submit() for i in range(10)]
    ```
  </Card>
  <Card title="Prefect 3">
    ```python
    @task
    def my_task():
	...
	
	
    @flow
    def my_flow():

> 	futures = [my_task.submit() for i in range(10)]

Author: ```suggestion
	futures = my_task.map([1, 2, 3, 4])
```

	# You must wait for futures before exiting flow.

> 	futures.wait()

Reviewer 5: Can I ask what the motivation behind this change is? It's not immediately clear to me why this change would be beneficial for Prefect. 

More pertinent to this PR, it might be helpful to have the Perefect 2 and Prefect 3 examples largely the same here. In the Prefect 2 example, the flow is doing `[my_task.submit() for i in range(10)]` whereas in Prefect 3 it's doing `my_task.map([1, 2, 3, 4])`. Ideally, just the `.wait()` syntax difference should be highlighted if possible.

Author: Thank you for catching the discrepancy between the examples, @Andrew-S-Rosen. I accepted a change to one without replicating that change to the other.

Your primary question deserves a thoughtful response. I'll reply to that shortly.

> 	    futures.wait()

Reviewer 4: This won't work as `futures` is a standard python list here; if you use `.map` or the soon-to-be `wait(*futures)` utility this will still look clean

    ```
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

If you do not wait for the futures, the tasks may fail with a 'Flow must be running to start a task' error. 
The one exception to this case is that `PrefectFuture`s returned from a flow will resolve to states before completing the flow.

## Result persistence and caching behavior

Prefect 3 supports transactional semantics - tasks runs can be grouped into larger transactions, enabling more resilient, idempotent workflows. 

> To support this, Prefect 3 has more eager, intelligent caching defaults than Prefect 2.

Reviewer 4: love this phrasing

Whenever a task runs, Prefect 3 first computes its cache key, then uses that cache key to evaluate whether that same task has run with the same inputs and as part of the same flow before. 
If it has, the cached result from the previous run is used.
If it hasn't, the task runs. 
This behavior can be configured through the new global `cache_policy` setting, or through the `cache_key_fn` on the task, just as in Prefect 2.

Results and cache keys are not stored with your Prefect Cloud account or Prefect server instance. 

> They are persisted entirely in your local result location. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
They are persisted entirely in your configured result location. 
```

---
title: Upgrade to Prefect 3
description: Learn how to upgrade from Prefect 2 to Prefect 3.
---

Some patterns supported by Prefect 2 are no longer supported with Prefect 3, or are enabled differently. 

> This guide covers changes that you may need to make to ensure your Prefect 2 workflows keep flowing.

Reviewer 6: I wonder if it might be helpful to callout the the Cloud API isn't changing from Prefect 2-3. Something reassuring about the relatively small migration scope.

Alternative or in addition to the above, we could add a **What stays the same** section like we have for the [worker upgrade guide](https://docs.prefect.io/latest/guides/upgrade-guide-agents-to-workers/#whats-similar). 

I think is helpful for people to get a sense of all the things they've built that won't need to be changed.

---
title: Upgrade to Prefect 3
description: Learn how to upgrade from Prefect 2 to Prefect 3.
---

> Some patterns supported by Prefect 2 are no longer supported with Prefect 3, or are enabled differently. 

Reviewer 7: Minor nit (non-blocking) - we may want a more positive spin on this line. "Prefect 3 brings new way to build and interact with your flows. This means that some patterns supported by Prefect 2 are no longer supported with Prefect 3, or are enabled differently."

This way we start with a carrot rather than an upgrade stick.

This guide covers changes that you may need to make to ensure your Prefect 2 workflows keep flowing.

<Info>
Prefect 3 is an upgrade to the open source `prefect` Python package
The Prefect 3 release does not involve any changes to Prefect Cloud.
All previous and future Prefect 2 releases will continue to work with Prefect Cloud.
</Info>

## Module locations and names

Some modules have been renamed, reorganized, or removed for clarity. 
Objects imported from changed modules will continue to work until their six month deprecation period ends, but will raise deprecation warnings. 
See the [migration script](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/blob/f767724ab28278446456b024b5c1c73f76ebcbb5/src/prefect/_internal/compatibility/migration.py#L22) for the full list of modules that have been moved and removed.

## Asynchronous task execution behavior

> Prefect 2 abstracts away certain task execution concerns, which is convenient in some cases, but comes at the expense of unexpected behavior in other cases. 

Reviewer 7: Another non-blocker - we may want to do a verb-tense sweep. Might help to refer to Prefect 2 in the past tense and Prefect 3 in the present/future.

Author: I'm reluctant to use past tense to refer to Prefect 2. It signals that Prefect 2 is already "in the past" but Prefect 3 this is just a release candidate. If I'm the minor here, I'll revise, but it was a conscious choice.

Prefect 3 defaults to running tasks as they would run as normal Python code, and requires you to be more explicit when you would like to modify task execution behavior. 
This results in clearer behavior with fewer surprises.

In Prefect 3, all workflow code, including task functions, runs on the main thread. This means:

- Python code that is not explicitly defined as asynchronous will execute synchronously, as normal Python code does.
- Non-thread safe objects, such as database connections, can be shared globally within a workflow.

To execute tasks asynchronously, you must either write asynchronous Python functions or use the `Task.submit` method to submit to a Prefect task runner.
Prefect 3 encourages conventional asynchronous Python programing principles. 
Updating your workflows to bring them in line with these principles requires code changes. 
Here are some examples:

**Synchronous tasks and flows cannot be called from asynchronous tasks or flows as they could in Prefect 2.**

<CodeGroup>
    ```python Prefect 2
    @task
    async def my_task():
        ...
	

    # Enclosing flow can be sync
    @flow
    def my_flow():

> 	    return my_task()

Reviewer 8: Minor nit here. It looks like these lines are using an actual `\t` (tab character) followed by 4 spaces, should probably just use the spaces.

	
		
    if __name__ == "__main__":
	    my_flow()
    ```

    ```python Prefect 3
    @task
    async def my_task():
	...
	

    # Enclosing flow must be async as well
    @flow
    async def my_flow():
	    return await my_task()
	
	
    if __name__ == "__main__":
	    asyncio.run(my_flow())
    ``` 
</CodeGroup>

Because `Task.submit` is always a synchronous call, it does not need to be awaited. 
`Task.submit` is still non-blocking and execution of the submitted task is also still non-blocking. 

> So, *you do not need to await use the `await` keyword in front of your `.submit` call*:

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
So, *you do not need to use the `await` keyword in front of your `.submit` call*:
```

- `PrefectFututure.get_state()` is now `PrefectFuture.state`
- `PrefectFuture.wait()` now returns `None` instead of a `State`

*Wait for the future to complete, then retrieve the state separately*:

<CodeGroup>
    ```python Prefect 2
    @task
    async def my_task():
    	...
	
	
    @flow
    async def my_flow():
    	future = await my_task.submit()
	    # State is returned by `wait()`
	    state = await future.wait()
	    return state
    ```

    ```python Prefect 3
    @task
    async def my_task():
    	...
	
	
    @flow
    async def my_flow():
	    future = my_task.submit()
	    # Wait for future completion  
	    # before retrieving the state
	    future.wait()
	    state = future.state
	    return state
    ```
</CodeGroup>

If you do not first wait for the future to complete, the run may raise an 'AttributeError: coroutine object has no attribute get' exception. 

In Prefect 3, `PrefectFutures` resulting from submitted task runs are not automatically awaited/resolved before exiting a flow, unless they’re a dependency of other flows or tasks, so *you must wait for a task’s `PrefectFuture` resolution before the end of a flow*:

> <CodeGroup>
>     ```python Prefect 2
>     @task
>     def my_task():
> 	    ...
> 	
> 	
>     @flow
>     def my_flow():
> 	    # The flow will not exit until 
> 	    # these futures are resolved
> 	    futures = my_task.map([1, 2, 3, 4])
>     ```
> 
>     ```python Prefect 3
>     @task
>     def my_task():
> 	    ...
> 	
> 	
>     @flow
>     def my_flow():
> 	    futures = my_task.map([1, 2, 3, 4])
> 	    # You must wait for futures before exiting flow.
> 	    futures.wait()
>     ```
> </CodeGroup>

Reviewer 9: imo as is the indenting is bizarrely excessive
```suggestion
<CodeGroup>
  ```python Prefect 2
  @task
  def my_task():
      ...
  
  
  @flow
  def my_flow():
      # The flow will not exit until 
      # these futures are resolved
      futures = my_task.map([1, 2, 3, 4])
  ```
  ```python Prefect 3
  @task
  def my_task():
      ...
  
  
  @flow
  def my_flow():
      futures = my_task.map([1, 2, 3, 4])
      # You must wait for futures before exiting flow.
      futures.wait()
  ```
</CodeGroup>
```

Reviewer 9: ope, apparently @bunchesofdonald [beat me here](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/14237#discussion_r1651593335)

Reviewer 8: But you won with the suggestion :)

The one exception to this case is that `PrefectFuture`s returned from a flow will resolve to states before completing the flow.

## Result persistence and caching enabled by default

Prefect 3 supports transactional semantics - tasks runs can be grouped into larger transactions, enabling more resilient, idempotent workflows. 
To support this, Prefect 3 has more eager, intelligent caching defaults than Prefect 2.

Whenever a task runs, Prefect 3 first computes its cache key, then uses that cache key to evaluate whether that same task has run with the same inputs and as part of the same flow before. 
If it has, the cached result from the previous run is used.
If it hasn't, the task runs. 
This means that tasks that may have re-run with the same inputs in Prefect 2 will not re-run in Prefect 3 unless the cache key is modified to be more precise.
The cache key can be configured through the new global `cache_policy` setting, or through the `cache_key_fn` on a particular task.

Results and cache keys are not stored with your Prefect Cloud account or Prefect server instance. 
They are persisted entirely in your configured result location. 

> Result persistence, and the caching behavior it enables, can be disabled through the `persist_result=False` flag.

Reviewer 10: I think we also need to call out that any time you use result persistence and want to run a task multiple times within the same flow you must explicitly use a NONE cache policy

```
from prefect.cache_policies import NONE

@task(cache_policy=NONE)
```

## Data validation via Pydantic V2

Prefect 2 uses Pydantic V1 to validate data, particularly for blocks and work pools. 
Prefect 3 has been upgraded to Pydantic V2. This upgrade does not require changes for any built-in Prefect interfaces or supporting integrations. 
However, if you have registered custom blocks with a self-hosted Prefect Server, type enforcement for those block schemas must be upgraded to Pydantic V2 to work with Prefect 3. 
See the the [Pydantic migration guide](https://docs.pydantic.dev/latest/migration/) for more information.

## Workers have replaced agents

A deprecation warning was applied to Prefect interfaces related to agent-based deployments in Prefect’s [2.16.4 release](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/releases/tag/2.16.4), including infrastructure blocks and `prefect deployment` commands. 
Agents will continue to be supported in Prefect 2 until September 2024, but have not been included in Prefect 3. 
If you are using agents, see [this guide to upgrade from agents to workers](https://docs-3.prefect.io/3.0rc/resources/upgrade-agents-to-workers).

> ## Variables have replaced certain blocks

Author: @WillRaphaelson please review this section for correctness and edit accordingly

---
title: Upgrade to Prefect 3
description: Learn how to upgrade from Prefect 2 to Prefect 3.
---

> Prefect 3 is the most flexible, powerful, fastest version of Prefect yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefect 3 is the most flexible, powerful, and fastest version of Prefect yet.
```

> Prefect 3 is the most flexible, powerful, and fastest version of Prefect yet.

Reviewer 11: super minor - to me this reads like it says "most flexible, most powerful, and most fastest"

Author: no thats good feedback. Fixed it. Thanks!

> Prefect 3 is the most flexible, powerful, and fastest version of Prefect yet.

Author: ```suggestion
Prefect 3 is the most flexible, powerful, and performant version of Prefect yet.
```

It offers [more ways than ever to model your workflows](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/releases/tag/3.0.0rc1).
This means that some patterns supported by Prefect 2 are no longer supported with Prefect 3, or are enabled differently.
This guide covers changes that you may need to make to ensure your Prefect 2 workflows keep flowing.

<Info>

> Prefect 3 is an upgrade to the open source `prefect` Python package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefect 3 is an upgrade to the open source `prefect` Python package.
```

The Prefect 3 release does not involve any changes to Prefect Cloud.
All previous and future Prefect 2 releases will continue to work with Prefect Cloud.
</Info>

## Module locations and names

Some modules have been renamed, reorganized, or removed for clarity. 
Objects imported from changed modules will continue to work until their six month deprecation period ends, but will raise deprecation warnings. 
See the [migration script](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/blob/f767724ab28278446456b024b5c1c73f76ebcbb5/src/prefect/_internal/compatibility/migration.py#L22) for the full list of modules that have been moved and removed.

## Asynchronous task execution behavior

> Prefect 2 abstracts away certain task execution concerns, which is convenient in some cases, but comes at the expense of unexpected behavior in other cases. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prefect 2 abstracts away certain task execution concerns, which is often convenient, but may cause unexpected behavior. 
```

> Prefect 3 defaults to running tasks as they would run as normal Python code, and requires you to be more explicit when you would like to modify task execution behavior. 

Author: I'll revise to clarify.

This results in clearer behavior with fewer surprises.

In Prefect 3, all workflow code, including task functions, runs on the main thread. This means:

- Python code that is not explicitly defined as asynchronous will execute synchronously, as normal Python code does.
- Non-thread safe objects, such as database connections, can be shared globally within a workflow.

To execute tasks asynchronously, you must either write asynchronous Python functions or use the `Task.submit` method to submit to a Prefect task runner.

> Prefect 3 encourages conventional asynchronous Python programing principles. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefect 3 encourages conventional asynchronous Python programming principles. 
```
nit

Updating your workflows to bring them in line with these principles requires code changes. 
Here are some examples:

**Synchronous tasks and flows cannot be called from asynchronous tasks or flows as they could in Prefect 2.**

<CodeGroup>
```python Prefect 2
@task
async def my_task():
    ...

# Enclosing flow can be sync
@flow
def my_flow():
    return my_task()

    
if __name__ == "__main__":
    my_flow()
```

```python Prefect 3
@task
async def my_task():
    ...

# Enclosing flow must be async as well
@flow
async def my_flow():
    return await my_task()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(my_flow())
``` 
</CodeGroup>

> Because `Task.submit` is always a synchronous call, it does not need to be awaited. 
> `Task.submit` is still non-blocking and execution of the submitted task is also still non-blocking. 
> So, *you do not need to use the `await` keyword in front of your `.submit` call*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*You do not need to use the `await` keyword in front of your `.submit` call* because `Task.submit` is always a synchronous call. `Task.submit` and the execution of the submitted task remain non-blocking:
```

I'm not totally sure this is better, I just felt the original could be rephrased/more concise.

Reviewer 12: Blocking vs. non-blocking feels like a trap. 😂 "Non-blocking" in modern Python usually refers to _non-blocking IO_, which is asynchronous Python code that uses `await`, etc. In that sense, `submit` is a blocking method call that makes a blocking-IO API request to schedule your task to run. Then your task runs asynchronously.

<CodeGroup>
```python Prefect 2
@task
async def my_task():
    ...

@flow
async def my_flow():

>     #must await `.submit()`

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    # Must await `.submit()`
```

    future = await my_task.submit()
    return future
```

```python Prefect 3
@task
async def my_task():
    ...

@flow
async def my_flow():
    # No need to await `.submit()`
    future = my_task.submit()
    return future
```
</CodeGroup>

The `PrefectFuture` methods are also always synchronous in Prefect 3. Names and return values have changed to reflect this:

> - `PrefectFututure.get_state()` is now `PrefectFuture.state`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `PrefectFuture.get_state()` is now `PrefectFuture.state`
```

- `PrefectFuture.wait()` now returns `None` instead of a `State`

*Wait for the future to complete, then retrieve the state separately*:

<CodeGroup>
```python Prefect 2
@task
async def my_task():
    ...

@flow
async def my_flow():
    future = await my_task.submit()
    # State is returned by `wait()`
    state = await future.wait()
    return state
```

```python Prefect 3
@task
async def my_task():
    ...

@flow
async def my_flow():
    future = my_task.submit()
    # Wait for future completion  
    # before retrieving the state
    future.wait()
    state = future.state
    return state
```
</CodeGroup>

If you do not first wait for the future to complete, the run may raise an 'AttributeError: coroutine object has no attribute get' exception. 

> In Prefect 3, `PrefectFutures` resulting from submitted task runs are not automatically awaited/resolved before exiting a flow, unless they’re a dependency of other flows or tasks, so *you must wait for a task’s `PrefectFuture` resolution before the end of a flow*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Prefect 3, `PrefectFuture`s resulting from submitted task runs are not automatically awaited/resolved before exiting a flow, unless they’re a dependency of other flows or tasks, so *you must wait for a task’s `PrefectFuture` resolution before the end of a flow*:
```

Reviewer: we do this below, so just trying for consistency

<CodeGroup>
```python Prefect 2
@task
def my_task():
    ...

@flow
def my_flow():
    # The flow will not exit until 
    # these futures are resolved
    futures = my_task.map([1, 2, 3, 4])
```

```python Prefect 3
@task
def my_task():
    ...

@flow
def my_flow():
    futures = my_task.map([1, 2, 3, 4])
    # You must wait for futures before exiting flow.
    futures.wait()
```
</CodeGroup>

If you do not wait for the futures, the tasks may fail with a 'Flow must be running to start a task' error. 

> The one exception to this case is that `PrefectFuture`s returned from a flow will resolve to states before completing the flow.

Reviewer: above we say `PrefectFutures` so I'm just wondering which one to use

> The one exception to this case is that `PrefectFuture`s returned from a flow will resolve to states before completing the flow.

Reviewer 12: ````suggestion
The one exception to this case is that `PrefectFuture`s returned from a flow will resolve to states before completing the flow:

<CodeGroup>
```python Prefect 3
@flow
def my_flow():
    # Prefect will resolve these futures to states
    # because the flow returned them, so you
    # don't have to call `wait()`.
    return my_task.map([1, 2, 3, 4])
```
</CodeGroup>
````

## Task caching and result persistence

Prefect 3 supports transactional semantics - tasks runs can be grouped into larger transactions, enabling more resilient workflows.

> In keeping with the transactional model, Prefect 3 enrourages task runs to be idempotent - intended to run only once per flow run.

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
In keeping with the transactional model, Prefect 3 encourages task runs to be idempotent - intended to run only once per flow run.
```

To support this, Prefect 3 has more eager, intelligent task caching defaults than Prefect 2.
Whenever a task runs, Prefect 3 first computes its cache key, then uses that cache key to evaluate whether that same task has run with the same inputs and as part of the same flow before. 
If it has, the cached result from the previous run is used.
If it hasn't, the task runs. 
This means that tasks that may have re-run with the same inputs in Prefect 2 will not re-run in Prefect 3 unless the cache key is modified to be more precise.
The cache key can be configured through the new global `cache_policy` setting, or through the `cache_policy` on a particular task.

> If a particular task cannot be made idempotent, you can disable this behavior by setting `cache_policy=NONE` on the task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a particular task cannot be made idempotent, you can disable this behavior by setting `cache_policy=None` on the task.
```

I think?

Results and cache keys are not stored with your Prefect Cloud account or Prefect server instance. 
They are persisted entirely in your configured result location. 

This caching behavior will only take effect when result persistence is enabled.
The simplest way to enable result persistence is through the Prefect setting `PREFECT_RESULTS_PERSIST_BY_DEFAULT=true`.
See the [caching documentation](/3.0rc/develop/write-tasks#caching) for more information.

> ## Notifications are now Automations

Author: ```suggestion
## Notifications are now automations
```

The notifications feature in Prefect 2 has been expanded to enable many kinds of “if this, then that” logic that can be defined and executed by a Prefect server instance or Prefect Cloud.
See the [Automations documentation](/3.0rc/automate/events/automations-triggers) for more information.

## Integrations must be upgraded

> Integrations compatible with Prefect 2 generally cannot be used with Prefect 3 and vice versa. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Integration packages compatible with Prefect 2 generally cannot be used with Prefect 3 and vice versa. 
```

You must update all of your integrations packages in conjunction with upgrading from Prefect 2 to Prefect 3. 

> We recommend specifying extras when you install the `prefect` package to ensure that you install the integration package version that corresponds to your Prefect version. For example, use `pip install prefect[aws] --pre` to install Prefect 3 and a compatible prefect-aws version.

Reviewer: I feel like this should be nearer the top alongside any other installation instructions

Author: Done!

## Data validation via Pydantic V2

Prefect 2 uses Pydantic V1 to validate data, particularly for blocks and work pools. 
Prefect 3 has been upgraded to Pydantic V2. This upgrade does not require changes for any built-in Prefect interfaces or supporting integrations. 
However, if you have registered custom blocks with a self-hosted Prefect Server, type enforcement for those block schemas must be upgraded to Pydantic V2 to work with Prefect 3. 
See the the [Pydantic migration guide](https://docs.pydantic.dev/latest/migration/) for more information.

## Workers have replaced agents

A deprecation warning was applied to Prefect interfaces related to agent-based deployments in Prefect’s [2.16.4 release](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/releases/tag/2.16.4), including infrastructure blocks and `prefect deployment` commands. 
Agents will continue to be supported in Prefect 2 until September 2024, but have not been included in Prefect 3. 
If you are using agents, see [this guide to upgrade from agents to workers](https://docs-3.prefect.io/3.0rc/resources/upgrade-agents-to-workers).

## Variables have replaced certain blocks

In Prefect 2, variables are strings. 

> To store and retrive typed values in Prefect 2, you have to use certain single-value blocks, icluding JSON, Date Time, and String blocks.

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
To store and retrieve typed values in Prefect 2, you have to use certain single-value blocks, including JSON, Date Time, and String blocks.
```

> In Prefect 3, variables can be any JSON compatible type, such that varaibles can now store all of these data types and more.

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
In Prefect 3, variables can be any JSON compatible type, such that variables can now store all of these data types and more.
```

This means that some patterns supported by Prefect 2 are no longer supported with Prefect 3, or are enabled differently.
This guide covers changes that you may need to make to ensure your Prefect 2 workflows keep flowing.

<Info>
Prefect 3 is an upgrade to the open source `prefect` Python package.
The Prefect 3 release does not involve any changes to Prefect Cloud.
All previous and future Prefect 2 releases will continue to work with Prefect Cloud.
</Info>

## Module locations and names

Some modules have been renamed, reorganized, or removed for clarity. 
Objects imported from changed modules will continue to work until their six month deprecation period ends, but will raise deprecation warnings. 
See the [migration script](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/blob/f767724ab28278446456b024b5c1c73f76ebcbb5/src/prefect/_internal/compatibility/migration.py#L22) for the full list of modules that have been moved and removed.

## Integrations must be upgraded

Integration packages compatible with Prefect 2 generally cannot be used with Prefect 3 and vice versa. 
You must update all of your integrations packages in conjunction with upgrading from Prefect 2 to Prefect 3. 

> We recommend specifying extras when you install the `prefect` package to ensure that you install the integration package version that corresponds to your Prefect version. For example, use `pip install prefect[aws] --pre` to install Prefect 3 and a compatible prefect-aws version.

Author: ```suggestion
We recommend specifying extras when you install the `prefect` package to ensure that you install the integration package version that corresponds to your Prefect version. For example, use `pip install prefect[aws] --pre` to install Prefect 3 and a compatible `prefect-aws` version.
```
